inits Deployment contrib (#2312)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/collector/deployment/centralized.md

---
title: Centralized
description:

>   Why and how to send signals to a single OTLP end-point and from there to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Why and how to send signals to a single OTLP endpoint and from there to
```

  backends
weight: 3
---

> The centralized collector deployment pattern consists of applications (or other

Reviewer 2: I’d have two main scenarios with separate pictures. First one with multiple applications sending to one Collector (basic setup). The second one could be this load-balanced scenario, but with multiple applications to visualize the centralized pattern.

  backends). If you use the `static` sub-key here, you will have to manually
  enumerate the collector URLs. The other supported resolver is the DNS resolver
  which will periodically check for updates and resolve IP addresses. For this
  resolver type, the `hostname` sub-key specifies the hostname to query in order
  to obtain the list of IP addresses.
- With the `routing_key` field you tell the Load-balancing exporter to route
  spans to specific downstream collectors. If you set this field to `traceID`
  (default) then the Load-balancing exporter exports spans based on their
  `traceID`. Otherwise, if you use `service` as the value for `routing_key`, it
  exports spans based on their service name which is useful when using
  processors like the [Span Metrics processor][spanmetrics-processor], so all
  spans of a service will be send to the same downstream collector for metric
  collection, guaranteeting accurate aggregations.

The collector servicing the central OTLP endpoint would be configured as shown
below:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
{{< ot-tabs Static DNS "DNS with service" >}}
{{< ot-tab lang="yaml">}}
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:

>       grpc:

Reviewer: Same as above: set endpoint explicitly to avoid warning.

exporters:
  loadbalancing:
    protocol:
      otlp:
        insecure: true
    resolver:
      static:
        hostnames:
          - collector-1.example.com:4317
          - collector-2.example.com:5317
          - collector-3.example.com

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [loadbalancing]
{{< /ot-tab >}}

{{< ot-tab lang="yaml">}}
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:

>       grpc:

Reviewer: ditto

exporters:
  loadbalancing:
    protocol:
      otlp:
        insecure: true
    resolver:
      dns:
        hostname: collectors.example.com

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [loadbalancing]
{{< /ot-tab >}}

{{< ot-tab lang="yaml">}}
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:

> 

Reviewer: ditto

exporters:
  loadbalancing:
    routing_key: "service"
    protocol:
      otlp:
        insecure: true
    resolver:
      dns:
        hostname: collectors.example.com
        port: 5317

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [loadbalancing]
{{< /ot-tab >}}
{{< /ot-tabs >}}
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

The Load-balancing exporter emits metrics including
`otelcol_loadbalancer_num_backends` and `otelcol_loadbalancer_backend_latency`
that you can use for health and performance monitoring of the central OTLP
endpoint collector.

## Tradeoffs

Pros:

- Separation of concerns
- Centralized policy management

Cons:

> 

Reviewer 2: These could be added as cons:
- Single point of failure
- Can lead to high load levels, if not dimensioned properly
